[Parallelizing BLAST and SOM algorithms with MapReduce-MPI library]

S.-J. Sul and A. Tovchigrechko, IEEE International Parallel &
Distributed Processing HICOMB Symposium, (2011).

Most bioinformatics algorithms are developed in a serial form due to a
fast pace of changes in the subject domain and the fact that many
bioinformatics tasks can be parallelized as collections of serial jobs
communicating at the file system level (High-Throughput Computing,
HTC). Recently, a MapReduce-MPI library was made available by Sandia
Lab to ease porting of a large class of serial applications to the
High Performance Computing (HPC) architectures dominating large
federated resources such as NSF TeraGrid. Using this library, we have
created two open-source bioinformatics applications. The first one
addresses a problem of adapting existing complex and highly optimized
serial bioinformatics algorithm to HPC architecture in a minimally
invasive way. We built a parallel BLAST implementation that calls the
high-level methods of unmodified NCBI C++ Toolkit. We demonstrated
scaling for up to 1000 cores on TACC Ranger cluster when processing
the sufficiently large input datasets. Using unmodified NCBI Toolkit
ensures that the results are compatible across the multitude of
settings in the original serial algorithm, and that future versions of
the upstream code can be easily integrated. The second application is
a Self-Organizing Map (SOM) machine-learning algorithm, popular in
bioinformatics applications such as metagenomic binning. The nature of
the SOM requires a global synchronization step with a frequency that
necessitates the use of an HPC environment. Our implementation of the
“batch SOM” uses a mix of MapReduce-MPI and direct MPI calls and
scales to 1000 cores as well. This allows easy processing of datasets
with a size that is out of range of the serial SOM
implementations. Both implementations are available in the open source
at http://andreyto.github.com/mgtaxa/.

Return to "MapReduce-MPI page"_../mapreduce/papers.html
