"MapReduce-MPI WWW Site"_mws :c
:link(mws,../mapreduce.html)

:line

Open-Source Distribution :h3


:line

Open-source Philosophy :link(opensource),h4

As explained above, this MR-MPI library is licensed under the
"Berkeley Software Distribution (BSD) License"_bsd.  This basically
means it can be used by anyone for any purpose, including commercial
ones.

If you use the MR-MPI library for something interesting, we'd like to
hear about it.

If you write a MapReduce program which calls the library, that others
would be interested in, you can send it and we'll include it in the
distribution.

If you enhance the MR-MPI library itself or have ideas for doing so,
we can discuss including the improvements in future releases.

You can send the authors email regarding any of these issues.

"Steve Plimpton"_sjp
sjplimp at sandia.gov :pre

"Karen Devine"_kdd
kddevin at sandia.gov :pre

The MapReduce-MPI (MR-MPI) library comes with no warranty of any kind.
As each source file states in its header, it is a copyrighted code
that is distributed free-of-charge, under the terms of the modified
Berkeley Software Distribution (BSD) License.  This is often referred
to as source distribution - see "www.gnu.org"_gnuorg or
"www.opensource.org"_opensource.  The legal text of the BSD License is
in the LICENSE file that is included in the MR-MPI distribution.

:link(gnu,http://www.gnu.org/copyleft/gpl.html)
:link(gnuorg,http://www.gnu.org)
:link(opensource,http://www.opensource.org)

:line

In the spirit of an open-source code, these are various ways you can
contribute to making ChemCell better.  You can send email to
sjplimp at sandia.gov on any of these items.

If you write/add a new feature to the code, let us know and we can
include it in the general distribution.  :ulb,l

If you find a bug, report it. :l

If you perform an interesting calculation with ChemCell or write a
paper using ChemCell results, let us know and we can include a brief
description, image, movie on the "ChemCell WWW page"_cws. :l

Send an email if you find an error or omission in the "ChemCell
documentation"_doc/Manual.html, or have a suggestion for something to
clarify or include. :l

Point prospective users to the "ChemCell WWW Site"_cws or link to it
from your WWW site. :l

Cash.  Small denominations, unmarked bills preferred.  Leave in paper
sack on desk.  "VISA"_email also accepted.  Chocolate chip cookies
encouraged. :ule,l

:link(pd,doc/Manual.html)
:link(email,mailto:sjplimp@sandia.gov)
